# Dependencies

Now that we’re sure that _pip_ is ready at our command, we’re going to limit our focus to MS Windows only, as its behavior is (should be) the same in all OSes, but before we start, we need to explain an important issue and tell you about **dependencies**.

Imagine that you've created a brilliant Python application named _redsuspenders_, able to predict stock exchange rates with 99% accuracy (by the way, if you actually do that, please contact us immediately).

Of course, you've used some existing code to achieve this goal – e.g., your app imports a package named _nyse_ containing some crucial functions and classes. Moreover, the _nyse_ package imports another package named _wallstreet_, while the _wallstreet_ package imports other two essential packages named _bull_ and _bear_.

As you’ve probably already guessed, the connections between these packages are crucial, and if somebody decides to use your code (but remember, we've already called dibs on it) they will also have to ensure that all required packages are in place.

To make a long story short, we can say that **dependency is a phenomenon that appears every time you're going to use a piece of software that relies on other software**. Note that dependency may include (and generally does include) more than one level of software development.

Does this mean that a potential _nyse_ package user is obliged to trace all dependencies and manually install all the needed packages? That would be horrible, wouldn't it?

Yes, it's definitely horrible, so you shouldn't be surprised that the process of arduously fulfilling all the subsequent requirements has its own name, and it's called _dependency hell_.

How do we deal with that? Is every user doomed to visit hell in order to run the code for the first time?

Fortunately not - _pip_ can do all of this for you. Really. It can discover, identify, and resolve all dependencies. Moreover, it can do it in the cleverest way, avoiding any unnecessary downloads and reinstalls.