#summary 
[[1.3 SUMMARY]]
# Key takeaways

  

1. A **repository** (or **repo** for short) designed to collect and share free Python code exists and works under the name **Python Package Index** (**PyPI**) although it's also likely that you come across a very niche name **The Cheese Shop**. The Shop's website is available at [https://pypi.org/](https://pypi.org/).

  

2. To make use of The Cheese Shop the specialized tool has been created and its name is **pip** (_**p**ip **i**nstalls **p**ackages_ while _pip_ stands for... ok, don't mind). As pip may not be deployed as a part of standard Python installation, it is possible that you will need to install it manually. Pip is a console tool.

  

3. To check pip's version one the following commands should be issued:

`pip --version`  

or

`pip3 --version`  

Check yourself which of these works for you in your OS' environment.

  

4. List of main **pip** activities looks as follows:

- `pip help _operation_` - shows brief pip's description;
- `pip list` - shows list of currently installed packages;
- `pip show _package_name_` - shows _package_name_ info including package's dependencies;
- `pip search _anystring_` - searches through PyPI directories in order to find packages which name contains _anystring_;
- `pip install _name_` - installs _name_ system-wide (expect problems when you don't have administrative rights);
- `pip install --user _name_` - install _name_ for you only; no other your platform's user will be able to use it;
- `pip install -U _name_` - updates previously installed package;
- `pip uninstall _name_` - uninstalls previously installed package;
**Exercise 1**

Where does the name "The Cheese Shop" come from?

Check

It's a reference to an old Monty Python's sketch of the same name.

  
  

**Exercise 2**

Why should I ensure which one of _pip_ and _pip3_ works for me?

Check

When Python 2 and Python 3 coexist in your OS, it's likely that _pip_ identifies the instance of pip working with Python 2 packages only.

  
  

**Exercise 3**

How can I determine if my _pip_ works with either Python 2 or Python 3?

Check

`pip --version` will tell you that.

  
  

**Exercise 4**

Unfortunately, I don't have administrative right. What should I do to install a package system-wide?

Check

You have to ask your _sysadmin_ - don't try to hack your OS!