# Key takeaways

  

1. You cannot add more than one anonymous (unnamed) `except` branch after the named ones.

`   :  # The code that always runs smoothly.  :  try:  :  # Risky code.  :  except Except_1:  # Crisis management takes place here.  except Except_2:  # We save the world here.  except:  # All other issues fall here.  :  # Back to normal.  :       `  

2. All the predefined Python exceptions form a hierarchy, i.e. some of them are more general (the one named `BaseException` is the most general one) while others are more or less concrete (e.g. `IndexError` is more concrete than `LookupError`).

You shouldn't put more concrete exceptions before the more general ones inside the same `except` branch sequence. For example, you can do this:

`   try:  # Risky code.  except IndexError:  # Taking care of mistreated lists  except LookupError:  # Dealing with other erroneous lookups       `  

but don't do that (unless you're absolutely sure that you want some part of your code to be useless)

`   try:  # Risky code.  except LookupError:  # Dealing with erroneous lookups  except IndexError:  # You'll never get here       `  

3. The Python statement `raise ExceptionName` can raise an exception on demand. The same statement, but lacking _ExceptionName_, can be used inside the `except` branch **only**, and raises the same exception which is currently being handled.

  

4. The Python statement `assert expression` evaluates the _expression_ and raises the `AssertError` exception when the _expression_ is equal to zero, an empty string, or `None`. You can use it to protect some critical parts of your code from devastating data.